[Return to Homepage](../)
# Conservation Practices 25% Program

## Background
The following is from the Ohio Division of Tax Equalization's Tax Commissioner,
October 2017, regarding revised forms DTE 109 and 109A;

>Under continuing law, farmland devoted to and qualified for payments or other
>compensation under a federal land retirement or conservation program is
>eligible for CAUV. Additionally, land used for conservation practices necessary
>to abate soil erosion in the management of the farm is eligible if it comprises
>25% or less of the landowner's total CAUV land. (The 25% designation applies to
>the total qualifying land on a farm and is not limited to 25% of each parcel.)

Due to this addition, the Seneca County Auditor's Office is now responsible for
determining if land enrolled in CAUV is eligible for up to 25% of their total
land to be valued at the lowest CAUV value (the value for Conservation land).
However, the conservation practices must be used to abate soil erosion in
management of the farm.

Ohio Revised Code (O.R.C) defines conservation practices used to abate soil
erosion as the following;

>Eligible conservation practices are practices used to abate soil erosion as
>required in the management of the farming operation, including the
>installation, construction, development, planting, or use of grass waterways,
>terraces, diversion, filter strips, field borders, windbreaks, riparian
>buffers, wetlands, ponds, and cover crop for that purpose.

## Management Practices
The new conservation program is stored in both the Auditor's IasWorld Database
and GIS land layers as 'CONP'. Conservation Contracts are stored as 'CRP'. Both
these programs are valued the same, but have different administration practices.
The Auditor requires official contracts and maps from the Farm Service Agency
(FSA) in order to qualify for 'CRP'. 'CONP' eligibility on the other hand, is
determined by the Auditor's Office.

In order to manage requests by CAUV land-owners, a Microsoft Form titled
[Conservation Verification | Seneca County,
OH](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=-wJQiZEmDkezp9asLj4WXog_DgwuLZhBtQ65PEc7krlUQTBWMllEQUkySEtSQUE5MVpWMENIQVQwNy4u)
was created. When a response is submitted, an email is sent to
auditorGIS@senecacountyohio.gov.

The Auditor's GIS Specialist then reviews the application and contacts the land
owner directly to map the conservation practices in the GIS land layer. All
responses are stored in a excel spreadsheet that can be downloaded from the
Form's Responses tab.
